DOC-8178 FGAC goes GA (#17521)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/authorization.md

---
title: CockroachDB Cloud Access Management (Authorization) Overview
summary: Learn about the {{ site.data.products.db }} Authorization features and concepts
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

This page covers the essential concepts related to access management (authorization) in {{ site.data.products.db }}. Procedures for managing access are covered in [Managing Users, Roles, and Service Accounts in {{ site.data.products.db }}](managing-access.html). For Frequently Asked Questions, refer to [CockroachDB Cloud FAQ](ccloud-faq.html).

> ## Overview of the {{ site.data.products.db }} two-level authorization model

Reviewer: FYI there is an agreement typo on line 20 with "belong"

Org Administrator (legacy) can manage the organization and its members, clusters, and configuration. This role grants the user permissions to perform all critical functions managing a {{ site.data.products.db }} organization:

- [Create or delete a cluster](create-your-cluster.html)
- [Invite team members to the organization](managing-access.html#invite-team-members-to-an-organization)
- [Manage an organization's users and their roles](managing-access.html#manage-an-organizations-users)
- [Create and manage SQL users](managing-access.html#create-a-sql-user)
- [Manage billing for the organization](billing-management.html)
- [Restore databases and tables from a {{ site.data.products.db }} backup](use-managed-service-backups.html#ways-to-restore-data)
- [Delete an organization](managing-access.html#delete-an-organization)

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
This role will is deprecated in favor of the following more fine-grained roles, which, in combination, cover the same permissions:

- [Org Administrator](#org-administrator)
- [Cluster Administrator](#cluster-administrator)
- [Billing Coordinator](#billing-coordinator)
{{site.data.alerts.end}}
  
### Org Developer (legacy)

> Org Developer (legacy) can read high-level information for all clusters, and monitor all clusters using DB Console.

Reviewer: Not necessarily something for this PR, what does "high-level information" include?

Author: absolutely nothing.

> Org Developer (legacy) can read high-level information for all clusters, and monitor all clusters using DB Console.

Author: ```suggestion
Org Developer (legacy) can read information for all clusters, and monitor all clusters using DB Console.
```

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
This role will is deprecated in favor of more fine-grained roles described above.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Service accounts

Service accounts authenticate with API keys to the {{ site.data.products.db }} API, rather than to the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console UI.

Service accounts operate under a unified authorization model with organization users, and can be assigned all of the same [organization roles](#organization-user-roles) as users, but note that some actions are available in the console but not the API, or vice versa (For example, in the [Cluster Operator Role](#cluster-operator)).

> *Legacy service accounts* that were created before the updated authorization model was enabled for your cloud organization may have roles assigned under the *legacy model*:

Reviewer: Do you think it is worthwhile to separate off the Legacy service account description and bullets a bit with an H3 just before the italics "Legacy service accounts"? Maybe not, just a thought. If that was something you did, could also move the "Refer to Manage Service Accounts" above that H3 heading

Author: i like it

- The `DELETE` role allows the service account to delete clusters within the organization.
- The `EDIT` role allows the service account to modify clusters within the organization.
- The `READ` role allows the service account to get details about clusters within the organization.

Legacy service accounts are considered deprecated. Update legacy service accounts to fine-grained access roles, and grant only the required access, according to the [principle of least privilege](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege).

Refer to [Manage Service Accounts](managing-access.html#manage-service-accounts).

## Cluster roles for organization users using Cluster SSO

Cluster Single Sign-On (SSO) for {{ site.data.products.db }} allows authorized organization users to directly access clusters within the organization via [`ccloud`](ccloud-get-started.html), the {{ site.data.products.db }} command line interface.

However, because organization users and cluster SQL users are logically separate, a corresponding SQL user must be created for each SSO organization user, on each particular cluster.

> This correspondence lies in the SQL user name, which must be in the format `sso_{email_name}`. Replace '(email_name}' with the portion of the user's email address before `@`. For example, the SQL username of a user with the email address `docs@cockroachlabs.com`  is `sso_docs`. If the role is not set up correctly, `ccloud` prompts you to create or add it. Only an SQL admin can manage SQL users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This correspondence lies in the SQL user name, which must be in the format `sso_{email_name}`. Replace `(email_name}` with the portion of the user's email address before `@`. For example, the SQL username of a user with the email address `docs@cockroachlabs.com`  is `sso_docs`. If the role is not set up correctly, `ccloud` prompts you to create or add it. Only an SQL admin can manage SQL users.
```

This role can be granted for specific clusters or for all clusters in the organization.

## Legacy Roles (deprecated)

### Org Administrator (legacy)

Org Administrator (legacy) can manage the organization and its members, clusters, and configuration. This role grants the user permissions to perform all critical functions managing a {{ site.data.products.db }} organization:

- [Create or delete a cluster](create-your-cluster.html)
- [Invite team members to the organization](managing-access.html#invite-team-members-to-an-organization)
- [Manage an organization's users and their roles](managing-access.html#manage-an-organizations-users)
- [Create and manage SQL users](managing-access.html#create-a-sql-user)
- [Manage billing for the organization](billing-management.html)
- [Restore databases and tables from a {{ site.data.products.db }} backup](use-managed-service-backups.html#ways-to-restore-data)
- [Delete an organization](managing-access.html#delete-an-organization)

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> This role will is deprecated in favor of the following more fine-grained roles, which, in combination, cover the same permissions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This role is deprecated in favor of the following more fine-grained roles, which, in combination, cover the same permissions:
```

- [Org Administrator](#org-administrator)
- [Cluster Administrator](#cluster-administrator)
- [Billing Coordinator](#billing-coordinator)
{{site.data.alerts.end}}
  
### Org Developer (legacy)

Org Developer (legacy) can read information for all clusters, and monitor all clusters using DB Console.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> This role will is deprecated in favor of more fine-grained roles described above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This role is deprecated in favor of more fine-grained roles described above.
```

Service accounts authenticate with API keys to the {{ site.data.products.db }} API, rather than to the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console UI.

Service accounts operate under a unified authorization model with organization users, and can be assigned all of the same [organization roles](#organization-user-roles) as users, but note that some actions are available in the console but not the API, or vice versa (For example, in the [Cluster Operator Role](#cluster-operator)).

*Legacy service accounts* that were created before the updated authorization model was enabled for your cloud organization may have roles assigned under the *legacy model*:

- The `ADMIN` role  allows the service account full authorization for the organization, where the service account can create, modify, and delete clusters.
- The `CREATE` role allows the service account to create new clusters within the organization.
- The `DELETE` role allows the service account to delete clusters within the organization.
- The `EDIT` role allows the service account to modify clusters within the organization.
- The `READ` role allows the service account to get details about clusters within the organization.

> Legacy service accounts are considered deprecated. Update legacy service accounts to fine-grained access roles, and grant only the required access, according to the [principle of least privilege](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update legacy service accounts to roles in the new authorization model, and grant only the required access, according to the [principle of least privilege](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege).
```
